Is that a grade point man?
Probably, yeah.
That's what it was later.
That's probably what it was, yeah.
He gives high grades like nobody can.
Yeah.
Alright, if you needed advice, counsel, who did you go to talk to?
I talked to another fish.
Really?
Who?
Just anybody.
But did you have some special friends that
Now you look back and realize... No, my special friends at Lamar were not my special friends my freshman year.
Oh, no, wait, I'm talking about now all four years.
Oh, all four years?
Yes, yes.
Yes, tell faculty, advisors, counselors.
No, no.
If we had that, I don't know.
I didn't know about it, no.
I never did go to any faculty member.
Were there some upperclassmen that you now realize had an impact on your academic... Well, of course, you know, you can remember upperclassmen that probably didn't know.
No, I didn't talk to them, but I mean, there are people that I remember seeing as freshmen.
and sophomore when they come out with their boots on and you know, they look like gods.
Who were, when you were an underclassman, who were the campus prominent personalities?
Preston Bolton was, Preston Bolton was our battalion commander in my official year in 1941.
Describe you.
Well, Preston, he
He was Dean Bolton's son, you know.
You know Preston, don't you?
Well, of course, I didn't know him then.
I didn't know him until long after I'd gotten out of A&M.
He didn't have anything to do with us, but his fish, our sophomores.
You know, the class distinction between a junior and a senior and a sophomore and a fish were, you know, just, I mean, it was night and day.
You didn't have any friends that were sophomores or juniors or seniors.
There weren't any friends.
And as a sophomore, you were just merely tolerated by the juniors and seniors.
I mean, they wore the different uniforms, the beautiful, you know, and juniors had their own class distinction.
You talk about discrimination, boy.
People don't know what discrimination is until it's heard.
Went through all that stuff.
Did you ever think about leaving school, leaving any?
Oh, God, yes.
Many times.
I've thought about it many times.
We'd have these air outs.
Tell me about an air out.
An air out is, I don't know who decided when there would be one, but they could come at any time of the night.
and they would just get the freshman and get them out.
Was there a signal?
Just air out.
When you heard that sound, boy air out fish, and that freshman got the hell out of there.
And then you better not be caught by anybody.
And we found a house that was near Dormford.
They had a lot of houses on the campus, professors' houses.
And there was one that was...
Bacon.
And we, a couple of guys and myself, found a loose board where we could get under the house and then pull it back under there.
And we got under the house.
Codwebs, oh my god, it was just horrible.
It smelled bad under there and everything.
And now we'd be laying there.
You know, what are we doing here?
Why are we doing this?
Are we having fun yet?
Or, you know, when does this end?
What was the signal that an air out was over that you could go back?
Well, I don't remember.
I don't remember.
I think somebody yelled around, get back to the dorm, fish, or something like that.
They'd go in yelling, get back to the dorm, air out's over, or something like that.
When you, during the day...
When you weren't in class during the day, where did you go?
Where did I go?
There were times, with 18 hours you had mostly in class, but I played tennis with a guy from Fort Worth.
We would put on our shorts, and that was the only time we wore in uniform.
You know, we'd wear shorts and a t-shirt.
And later I learned to play handball at A&M.
I'd never played handball before, but I learned how to play at A&M.
I hadn't played tennis before.
But I played a lot of handball down at, next to P.L.
Downs in the auditorium, Charlie DeWare Fieldhouse.
Yeah, describe DeWare Fieldhouse.
Well, the Warefield House was one of the largest buildings on campus.
It was huge.
Well, it seated 2,000 people in there.
You know, it was big.
And I don't know how many handball courts they had.
They must have had five or six hotels at the time.
But not many people played handball.
And I never seemed to have had much trouble getting the court.
Now, did you students go to basketball games?
Yeah, we went to everything.
I mean, whatever A&M played, we were at everything.
I went to every game that was played.
Did y'all make any noise?
Oh, God, yeah.
We screamed all night.
Couldn't talk the next day.
If you could talk, they would really have some serious reservations about whether you supported the team or not the night before.
All right, now your first fall, the football team had a fairly good year, I know.
Yeah, they had a real good year.
Describe that.
Well, it was really fun.
We had these, I don't know, the stationary that would come out with the team we were getting ready to play, but UCLA would be on it in color, and A&M would be, you know, beat the hell out of it and all.
So I would write all my Sarah and a few other girlfriends that did that out.
And you went to those games?
Oh yeah, I went to every game.
I went to every game.
Did you go to some road games?
I went to some road games.
How did you get there?
Hitchhiked to the Baylor and Fort Worth and Dallas and all.
Stayed with other Aggies.
They didn't have a lot of money.
Describe the routine of a court trip during that era, during your four years.
Well, a court trip was just a
big mass exodus and it was a lot of fun.
Everybody was there and we stayed together all the time.
We would again stay with the people.
When the Corps trip was in Houston, I'd have 12 Aggies maybe spending the night at my house with sleeping bags on the floor downstairs and I think my mother would feed them.
And then you all would come downtown and the Corps
The march would be on what street about what time?
Bain Street, usually around then I think.
March from the Rice Hotel.
About how far?
Six or eight blocks, look anyway.
And then go to the game.
And go to the game.
Normally when the game was over, did you spend the Saturday night in that town on a court trip?
Yes, if you had any money you could stay in a hotel room and a lot of times you'd go together and get two of them would sign up for the room, but quite a few more would be enough there.
There was never anybody in a room by himself or a room for two or anything like that.
I slept in bad tubs, I slept all over them.
Court trips were held to what cities?
In Fort Worth, Dallas, Waco, Austin, Arkansas, Houston.
Arkansas?
Yeah.
But we never had a court trip to Arkansas, but of course that's where we played.
No, we never had.
No, they had, the court trips were Dallas and Fort Worth every other year.
It was Dallas one year, Fort Worth one year, and Houston every other year, and then Austin every other year.
If a student literally wasn't able to go on the court trip, was that bad or negative for that student?
No, it wasn't.
There were some that didn't, mostly because of money.
In your four years, how many court trips do you think you missed?
I know I missed one.
You missed one in four years?
I missed one to Fort Worth.
And I think that's the only one I missed.
Alright, do you remember any particular incidents on court trips that are tellable?
Gosh, they were all just mad houses.
I mean, we used to think we owned the town when we would come to play football there.
We'd be at the major hotel in all of them.
In Houston, it was a rice hotel.
We would have to yell to practice out there at midnight.
And we didn't want anybody else around.
You know, all the Houstonians would stay away.
We didn't try to throw anybody out or anything, but we were making so much noise.
Which hotel in Dallas do you remember?
Yeah, it was the Adolphus.
Adolphus.
Austin?
In Driscoll.
Driscoll?
Yeah.
Fort Worth?
Fort Worth, it was the- Blackstone?
Texan?
Rockstone.
Texan, what else?
You just ran out of my knowledge.
Rockstone.
All right, then on Saturday nights then, on court trips, what was the normal routine?
Well, as I say, nobody had very much money, so you really didn't, we didn't do that.
There wasn't one event for... No.
If you brought some... Well, later on, when I became a sophomore, I was a freshman.
We didn't do anything.
No, but those other three years.
Later on, we got dates.
Okay.
Yeah, we'd get dates and go out to... How did, let's say in Dallas or Fort Worth, how did you get a date?
Well, I knew girls at Hockaday and at SMU.
They were from Houston and gone up there to school.
I knew them everywhere.
Were you, as a good Aggie, supposed to get some dates?
I never had a blind date.
Oh, you didn't?
No.
Were you supposed to get dates for your buddies on a court trip to Houston?
I did.
I got a lot of dates for them.
I got some dates for some of my buddies that lived in smaller towns out that didn't know girls at Hockaday.
I knew a lot of girls at Hockaday.
Now, were you dating Sarah during those years?
Yeah.
She was away in school, though.
Where?
She was at Chatham Hall in Virginia and also Pine Manor in Boston.
So she was always away.
So you're writing to her.
Yeah.
But meanwhile, you might have had some dates also here.
Might have had.
Might have.
I can't remember exactly, but might have.
Alright, let's go back now to social life at A&M.
Where did you and your friends go off campus for a good time in Brazos County?
Ed's.
What?
Tell me about Ed's.
Ed's was out there on Weldon Road.
down the street you could walk to it.
It wasn't a short distance, but we'd go to baseball games.
That was, I guess, as much fun as I had as an upper class when I was going to baseball games and then walking down to Ed's after the game.
What did Ed's serve?
Beer.
What was the favorite variety of beer for students then?
Do you remember?
Grand Prize.
bottle then?
Green Prize, as we later called it.
Green Prize, huh?
Now, was beer legal?
Yeah.
Okay, that wasn't good.
No.
As far as I know, did you have to be 21?
They sold it to us.
I don't think it did.
I don't think you had to be 21.
If somebody wanted some... Later it did.
If somebody wanted a stronger liquor, whiskey or something, where did... Well, you had to go across the river.
Well, that's...
Way to have it gone.
And what did y'all call it?
Boston Highway.
Did y'all have a name for that place?
Yeah.
Was it called Whiskey Bridge then?
And was there... But we didn't know anybody had a car, so we didn't go as sophomores or freshmen or sophomores.
We'd get to know later, especially if we had a girl that would come over from someplace that had a car to bring, and then we could go and get something to drink.
But I didn't really know any, I didn't have a friend that had a car.
All right, if there were any beverages like that, where did you drink them?
In your... Just out of a bottle.
No, no, but in the car or in the room or where?
Never in the room, no.
We never brought a girl shower.
That was a no-no.
Did you ever have... I don't know.
There were times where people did that.
You heard about it.
But I didn't ever know anyone personally that ever brought a girl to their own.
Did anybody ever keep any beer or other alcohol in the room?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Alright, were there some places in Bryan or College Station that were supposedly offering other services that... No, no, but there were other places.
that my friend Prowl was going to.
I don't know where.
So there was no well-known house of ill repute?
Well, there was in, well, no, it was close to the Chicken Ranch.
Okay.
That was going.
Across the, oh, oh, yeah.
We've heard of that at the Chicken Ranch, the one that- Down in the Grange.
The Grange, yeah.
That was heavily used by Austin people.
Were there any rumors about Aggies going down there during your era?
Yeah.
I didn't go, but there were a lot of people that bragged about going.
I think I drove by once.
Do you think that their stories about their experiences there were accurate?
Did they ever enlarge on the truth?
I'm sure they were exaggerated.
To a large degree, I'm sure it was expensive.
We didn't have any money.
I didn't have any money at all spent on anything.
Do you have any recollection of the cost of the year in those days?
No.
How much spending money did you have?
That, I don't remember that either.
Did you get a kind of an allowance?
I had an allowance, yeah.
And it was enough to, you know, I could get a Coke and stuff like that on the side, but I couldn't really go and have a date.
Did you have a job at A&M?
No, no, I never did have to work.
About what percentage of your classmates you think were, did have a program?
Very few of my friends have jobs.
But what about in general?
But now, my friends today, a lot of them,
But the ones I knew when I was there, none of them worked.
I don't know where they are.
But now I hear a lot of, of course I get to a lot of classes.
My class, I really didn't know, have anybody as a friend that I saw on a regular basis that worked.
But that, you know, I don't know how the world did it.
Over the project houses, were they there then?
Yeah, there were some day dodgers over there.
Okay.
Frogs and day dodgers, they were great.
And about what percentage of the student body you think were day dodgers?
Very small.
Okay.
I didn't know many.
You had to be in the Corps the first two years.
Right.
But then you could be a civilian.
No.
In my time, the whole time, everybody was in the Corps.
All four years?
Yeah, and while I was only there for three, you know, we went the year-round.
When did that start?
Well, of course, on December the 7th of 1940.
We'll get to that in a minute.
Okay.
That three semesters a year.
Well, I'm just trying to get together on December 7th first, but that's when it started after that.
I might have...
That first year, my freshman year, yeah, I had a summer off.
One summer off.
Did you go to summer camp?
No, I didn't do anything.
I just had a summer free.
I went and made up a couple of those engineering classes that I had failed.
I went to the University of Houston and took two courses.
that first summer, but that was the only summer from then on.
42, 43 we went the year round.
Now you're a freshman in September of 19...what?
Your freshman year was September of 1940.
Okay, then the years you're at A&M, what are the national or international events that you remember vividly
when you heard those news reports?
Well, the first one, of course, was the Pearl Harbor.
How did you hear the news and where were you?
I was at a movie at Guy and Hall.
Guy and Hall is no longer there.
It's where Rudder is now.
What they had was a movie.
Hall, they had movies there.
Afternoons and at night.
in the afternoons, on the weekends, I might say.
You certainly never considered going to a movie during the week.
There was never any time to go to a movie.
I never went to a movie during the week.
But they stopped the movie to announce about Pearl Harbor.
And I don't remember what the movie was.
I forgot what it was.
Do you remember what that announcement said?
I just remember that they broke in and didn't have any editorializing about it at all and said that reports had come across that there was no word from President Roosevelt.
But the words had come to them, to A&M, that the Japanese had attacked Pearl Harbor.
Now, afternoon or night when you heard this?
Throughout noon.
So that's Sunday.
Did you hear the Roosevelt speech the next day on the radio to Congress?
Yeah.
Where were you when you heard that?
I don't remember, but I remember hearing it.
I must have been in my room.
Do you remember any discussion in your room or anywhere else that Sunday night or Monday night?
Yeah, we talked about what effect that might have on us.
What did you think it would?
And it didn't really concern me that much.
I knew that it was not good, but I didn't really think about how it would affect me.
I was too busy trying to stay alive.
What was the general opinion of you and your friends as to who was going to win that war?
Were you in doubt?
No, I just, I really, I don't recall what we said about that.
I'm sure we had a Japanese in our outfit.
Tell me about that.
He was a nice guy.
Was he American or Japanese national?
He was American, but he was of Japanese descent.
And I think they put his parents in jail.
He was in California.
How was he treated?
I'm sure he was not treated very well.
You don't remember?
No, I really don't.
I remember him.
And I don't remember, I think he left school because of his parents and I don't know.
Tell me about the protest organizations on the campus against the war.
Oh shoot, are you kidding?
There never has been a protest organization during my time at A&M.
Alright, let's pursue them.
How did your routine of the campus and so forth begin to change after December 7th?
Well, nothing really changed the rest of that year.
Of course, we kept up with the war every now and then.
How'd you keep up with it?
Newspapers are just talking about it.
Radio, I guess.
But we didn't, you know, I can't tell you how busy we were.
I mean, how there was no time to sit down and reflect or think about anything other than your own life.
You know, just...
Just keeping up with what was going on.
When did that three semester a year routine begin?
Well, that... I really don't remember the exact time, but it was all confusing, you know.
We got around and we were kind of excited because we were closer to boots, to wearing boots, you know.
We had the juniors.
I was a sergeant on the course staff.
And we kept thinking, you know, we're going to...
That was the main thing is when we were going to get those boots and we never got them.
The boots went to war.
I remember very distinctly going to a meeting in front of the chemistry building and Dean Bolton got out there and told us that there was a meeting of the junior class
And he said that there would be no boots for the junior class and we could leather it going to war.
So that was a blow, a big blow.
All right, what about senior rings?
We got the rings.
You don't remember what it cost?
I think it was $30.
And how many seniors bought a ring?
What percentage do you think?
You know, I don't know.
I think all of it.
I think it's near 100%.
Somehow or other they've got enough money to buy that name.
And what jewelry store?
You know, I don't know.
Well, I think it was through the campus.
I don't believe it ever.
No, we didn't go to the stores yet.
It was a place that you gave the school the money and the school had the rings.
You can't just get them.
You couldn't go in and buy any ring.
When could you get your senior ring?
When could you get them?
When were you eligible to buy your senior ring?
Well, at the end of our junior year, which was not a year.
It was mixed up, you know, because we were around.
Alright.
In terms of behavior patterns and events,
As the war progressed and you all got near it to graduation and departure, did things become more serious on the campus?
Yeah, it became a lot more serious then.
We understood that the seniors before us were getting close and they were going to get their commissions.
And the next sweat was, were we going to be able to get our commissions?
The word was, you know, an iffy situation.
And if I'm not mistaken, it was the Battle of the Bulge that did it for us.
When that happened, people going to school didn't count anymore.
I mean, that was a nervous time for them.
press in the Army and they decided that everybody going to school better get on with it.
So they took the class of 44 and the class of 46, I mean 44 and 45 out.
One night we got on the train.
How did you learn that you were going?
It was just, we were notified.
No, I don't really remember how we were notified.
Do you remember how much lead time you had?
No, no time at all.
It was no time at all.
I mean, we were told one day, as I recall, we went the next evening.
Do you remember what time of the year that was?
Summer.
It was in a summer period.
1943.
And so you had been at A&M three years.
Three years.
But I was 14 hours short.
Of being a senior.
Yeah.
Actually, this was at the end of a semester because I didn't
I don't, we had not gone to class in our last semester yet.
This was the end of the semester.
So the whole, I think the whole country had done what we had done.
Everybody in ROTCs around the country were going full time to school.
Right, and you all packed up and got on the train where?
In College Station.
The train pulled up right there.
And the class of 44 and 45 got on board.
We went to San Antonio.
As a group?
As a group.
And you reported to where?
San Antonio.
One of them?
Fort Sam.
Fort Sam Houston.
Okay.
What were your feelings as you were leaving?
Well, it was just kind of a kick.
We...
Nobody really talked about going to war or anything like that.
I mean, we were just going on another court trip.
I mean, it was just, it was kind of fun.
We had a great time and we got to San Antonio.
They had never seen anything like us before over there.
I mean, they were dealing with raw recruits off the farms in the big cities of Texas and they didn't know the first thing about anything.
And when the sergeant said,
hill to land that everybody did.
Think about not doing that.
Well, we certainly, it didn't take us very long to find the holes.
And we found a lot of holes in the air security over there.
And I bet you, the time I was there, after the first week, I spent very few nights at Port Sam.
I stayed with my buddy, Travis Parker, in San Antonio.
And his parents were so nice and
John Hutchins was another good friend of mine from San Antonio.
They lived next door to each other, and I was at one of those houses every night.
And in the morning, there would be, say, 200 would meet here and 200 more.